---
title: "Workflow"
geometry:
output: html_document
---

# Summary of Work Performed

1.	Mouthpiece archive and reproduction
1.5.	Scan each mouthpiece in the SMIF microCT scanner.
This was a very time consuming process. Some scans failed to compile properly and needed to be repeated several times. In the end useful scans were produced for mouthpiece ID 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,11.
1.6.	Convert scans into .STL files that can be analyzed and/or 3D printed.
This was also very tie consuming. In the end Justin Gladman, R&D Engineer at SMIF completed this file conversion for the project due to his easy access to the propriety software and his expertise with this software. STL files were created for mouthpiece ID 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,11. Files were created at 2 resolutions, 1 for max fidelity for printing, typically about 1GB, and 1 for easy manipulation for analysis, about 3MB or less.
1.7.	Produce some 3D printed copies.
Copies were produced for ID 1,2,6,7,8. ID 1,2, and 6 have shortened shanks for technical reasons, and are of limited use for evaluation.
1.8.	Test play and hand finish printed copies in an attempt to produce a usable faithful reproduction.
In general, all copies have some similarity with the original from a players perspective, but none would be regarded an exact copy. Mouthpiece ID 7 was printed 5 times while varying some print parameters and hand finishing techniques of careful sanding on table and rails. Mouthpiece ID 7.1 and 7.3 are pretty good mouthpieces, and very similar to the original but still not quite the same in the opinion of the team.
2.	Acoustic data
2.1.	Write a questionnaire and instructions for recording
After much discussion and some trial runs, it was decided to limit the recording to 4 long tones, recorded in 3 takes each for each musician. This resulted in small variations from take to take so eliminated many of the random variations inherent in playing a fragment of a song for example, and it was clear that a time dependent analysis of attack and decay was going to be beyond the scope of this project.
2.2.	Survey musicians and record samples of each musician playing each mouthpiece.
Recordings were collected for the following musicians:
•	Team members Max Bartlett, Matthew Busch, and Gia Jadick.
•	Local professionals Steve Cowles, Dave Finucane, Jill Jones, Matthew Tedesco, and Liam Trawick.
•	Survey responses only were recorded for Brian Curry.
•	Additional recording sessions needed to be cancelled due to COVID-19.
2.3.	Extract a set of parameters from each recording that can be used to quantifiably compare each player-mouthpiece combination.
These parameters were devised and compiled based on online research in the field.
3.	Dimensional analysis
3.1.	Measure physical properties of material of each mouthpiece.
Measurements of material hardness and density could not discern differences between mouthpieces. 
3.2.	Extract key physical dimensions from scanned files in software
A Mathematica script was written to extract tip opening, facing curve, baffle profile, and table angle relative to table for mouthpiece ID 2,5,6,7,8,11.
3.3.	Record measurements by hand using traditional tools.
Traditional measurement tools and techniques were used to record tip opening and facing curve for each mouthpiece.
4.	Comparative analysis
4.1.	Compile all data in a database that allows for easy comparison.
A website interface using R-shiny has been written to dynamically generate plots of datasets
4.2.	Systematically search for correlations in dataset.
Values of R^2, P-values, and slope were compiled for all linear combinations of data sets.
