---
title: "History"
output:
  html_notebook: 
    toc: yes
    theme: flatly
    #toc_float:
    #  collapsed: true
    #  smooth_scroll: true
    #css: 'bootstrap copy 2.css'
#runtime: shiny
---


The height of American jazz saxophone manufacture and playing occurred from the dawn of modern recording to the dawn of the electric guitar as the dominant popular solo instrument, c.1930-1968. The most desirable instruments and mouthpieces to this day were produced in this era of maximum profitability in saxophone production. The classic American jazz sound is a product of the style of the era but also to a lesser extent to the instruments of the era. It is generally accepted that the most important component of saxophone tonal quality is the players embouchure, or the shape and muscle tone of lips, teeth, and oral cavity. As this tone is produced by the reed and mouthpiece and travels down the instrument to create the pitch the influence on tone decreases. Hence the next most important aspect on tone quality after the player is the reed and mouthpiece, followed by the neck and finally the body of the saxophone.

Top quality saxophones of the era are highly sought after by today’s professionals, dominated by a few models known to be played by the legendary innovators. Since the mouthpiece is generally regarded as more important in the development of tone, vintage mouthpieces are also highly sought after, but finding a top quality vintage piece similar to pieces played by legends of the era is much more complicated and subjective due to the following factors:

1.	The mouthpiece and reed work as a system with the players embouchure, so that an identical mouthpiece used by a different player produces a distinct tone, even among peer professionals.  Changing reeds to a different strength or profile also significantly changes the tone for the same player and mouthpiece.

2.	Most professional players use mouthpieces that have been custom made or custom modified for them by the mouthpiece manufacturer or and aftermarket craftsperson referred to as a “refacer”. As a result, purchasing a manufacturer’s stock mouthpiece of the same size designation and era as one known to be played by a past pro is unlikely to the same dimensionally, sometimes drastically so. Some professionals made their own modifications, and documentation of this modification process was either poorly recorded or regarded as secret, or both and hence has been lost to history.

3.	Mouthpieces are wear items. Teeth dig into the bite plate, the vibration of the reed on the side and tip rails slowly erode, and dropping or bumping the mouthpiece can easily chip or deform the tip areas, which are the most critical areas to tone production. Any professional’s personal favorite mouthpiece is significantly worn in and different dimensionally than a new mouthpiece, and could potentially be “worn-in” to a preferred state from playing.

4.	Mouthpieces are more difficult to track from historical photographs. Mouthpieces that look identical for the outside can be significantly different on the inside, and the inside form is what is responsible for tone production. 

5.	Most mouthpieces do not include a date traceable serial number, and most prominent manufacturers have produced mouthpieces over several decades that have changed little in physical appearance but have changed drastically in quality and value.

6.	There is some variability from the factory of nominally identical mouthpieces. Modern manufacturing techniques have abated this issue somewhat for professional grade mouthpieces, but the best are still generally hand finished. In the past this variability led to a practice of test playing several mouthpieces of the same make and model at the manufacturer or retailer, then purchasing and/or requesting minor modifications at the point of sale. Due to modern internet marketing this practice is increasingly difficult but still employed by some.

In spite of the difficulties noted above, several makes of vintage mouthpieces have gained cult following among modern professionals, and command a premium price over new equivalents. In most cases the collectable vintage mouthpieces are still in production, but are if inferior quality.
